Let's get started,I am also a begginer just like you here we go:

What is Python?
Python is a popular programming language. It was created by Guido van Rossum, and released in 1991.

It is used for:
web development (server-side),
software development,
mathematics,
system scripting.

What can Python do?
Python can be used on a server to create web applications.
Python can be used alongside software to create workflows.
Python can connect to database systems. It can also read and modify files.
Python can be used to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.
Python can be used for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.

Why Python?
Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).
Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language.
Python has syntax that allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.
Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written. This means that prototyping can be very quick.
Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-orientated way or a functional way.

Good to know:
The most recent major version of Python is Python 3, which we shall be using in this tutorial. However, Python 2, although not being updated with anything other than security updates, is still quite popular.
In this tutorial Python will be written in a text editor. It is possible to write Python in an Integrated Development Environment, such as Thonny, Pycharm, Netbeans or Eclipse which are particularly useful when managing larger collections of Python files.
Python Syntax compared to other programming languages
Python was designed for readability, and has some similarities to the English language with influence from mathematics.
Python uses new lines to complete a command, as opposed to other programming languages which often use semicolons or parentheses.
Python relies on indentation, using whitespace, to define scope; such as the scope of loops, functions and classes. Other programming languages often use curly-brackets for this purpose.

Let's go step by step

You can use command window to run phython programm
for Ex:C:\Users\Your Name>python helloworld.py
Here "helloworld.py" is the saved name of python file 
=>.py is the phthon extended file name like we save images in .jpg files


To create a variable in python :
1.You must know the rules of how we declare a variable in programming language
i)Must use alphabets or start with(_) is also not an error
ii)Should not start with the numerical numbers where it can be used in the middle of the variables that you declare

Keywords Used in python that can't be used as variable names:
False               def                 if                  raise
None                del                 import              return
True                elif                in                  try
and                 else                is                  while
as                  except              lambda              with
assert              finally             nonlocal            yield
break               for                 not                 
class               from                or                  
continue            global              pass                


Built-in Data Types
In programming, data type is an important concept.

Variables can store data of different types, and different types can do different things.

Python has the following data types built-in by default, in these categories:

Text Type:	str
Numeric Types:	int, float, complex
Sequence Types:	list, tuple, range
Mapping Type:	dict
Set Types:	set, frozenset
Boolean Type:	bool
Binary Types:	bytes, bytearray, memoryview

Capitalize()     Converts the character to upper case
casefold()       Coverts string int lower case

 




